>> Kyle Simpson: My name's Kyle Simpson,
everybody knows me online as, Getify.
If you don't follow me on Twitter,
or on my Gmail, or
anywhere else online,
you can find me as Getify and
I'll love to hear any thoughts or
feedback or questions that you may have.
This particular workshop topic,
is much more out of my normal wheelhouse.
Any of you that have seen me teach before,
the many workshops I have here
on Frontend Masters, I'm all about
teaching the core JavaScript language, or
maybe like patterns in JavaScript.
Like functional programming or
things like that, and
I don't often venture into
the Frontend programming world.
I don't venture much beyond,
for example, NodeJS,
so, this will be a fun and
exciting exercise.
I basically begged the Frontend Masters
people, to let me come and teach this,
because it's something that
I'm super interested in.
But it's not something that I'm
necessarily really an expert at,
it's kind of a newer
thing that I'm learning.
And there are a lot of people,
maybe even some of you,
that have more experience with this stuff,
than I do.
But probably last summer,
is when I really got interested in the
topic of service workers, in particular.
So that's what we're gonna be focusing
on today, is service workers and
how we write them.
What they are for and how we write them,
how we position them within
a website in particular.
And I say, website on purpose, because
most of the other materials that are out
there that talk about service workers,
seem to focus on progressive web apps.
And I just wanna give a quick
note about progressive web apps.
That's how I actually first started
experiencing them, last summer, I decided
I wanted to build myself a progressive
web app, to install on my phone.
It's a little app, that lets you take
notes when you're at a restaurant and
then be reminded when you
come back to that restaurant.
And I wanted to build that app for myself
and I wanted to do it with web technology.
I don't wanna go learn Java,
or whatever you use on iOS these days,
I can't keep up with it.
But I didn't wanna learn any of that,
I just wanted to use the good old
web technologies that I knew.
And so I did dive in for
the first time, to service workers and
try to figure out how they work.
And I was doing exactly what any of
you have done, if you have tried,
which is just randomly googling around
saying, somebody tell me what this is.
I do wanna point out,
I've got in the links here,
I found about halfway through that
journey, that one of my favorite people on
the Internet Jeremy Keith had written
a book called, Going Offline.
And this is an absolutely fantastic book,
so, please go buy that book.
It's one of the best resources I've found
for trying to sift through this stuff.
But there's still just lots and lots of
bits and pieces, incomplete information.
There's lots of reference on MDN,
there's lots of write ups that
Google has done about it.
But trying to piece together, all of
these things, is a very manual process.
And literally the code that we'll be going
through today, was done exactly that way.
I set out with, here's what I kinda
wanna build and I know the pieces, but
I'm gonna have to fiddle with it.
And I spend a lot of time fiddling with
it, and trying it and trying it over and
over and over again.
So, I certainly am not at the place where
I can just write this stuff perfectly from
scratch, and I don't think
that's even reasonable to do.
A couple of things to point out,
there are in here,
a couple of resources that you should know
about, in particular this one on work box.
That is a framework for
writing service workers, so
it's a library framework thing that
you load into your service worker.
It has a variety of APIs for
declaratively setting stuff up.
I think it's a great idea to have
something like this, because,
quite frankly, many of you are probably
gonna get pretty intimidated pretty quick,
when you see just how much
code we're gonna be writing.
I'm actually excited by writing,
by being able to write my own
code in a service worker.
So I went the opposite direction,
instead of using a framework or library,
I really wanted to have all of that fine
grained control and with that control,
comes an understanding of things.
And I really wanted to understand,
what was possible, what I could do.
And there's a lot of things that are
possible, that don't even get talked about
and we'll kind of cover those
various things as we go along.
But, I certainly understand that, if you
are trying to get something shipped at
work, you don't have a lot of time
to just, green field explore.
And that would be, a really great starting
point, to get a service worker up and
going, that would be a really
great starting point for.
So, back to what I was
saying a moment ago,
about the idea of sites
versus applications.
Everybody seems to think
about it in terms of apps,
that's where I started learning and
building was with apps.
But, I am gonna talk to you today,
about using service
workers with everything
that's not a web application.
Because I think, well, one of the things
that we have missed on the web,
and by missed, I mean,
I think we didn't realize how important
this was a long, long time ago.
If we'd realized a long, long time
ago how important this problem is,
I think we would've had something like
service workers, a decade or two ago.
And I'm not even sure whether
the technology platform was mature enough
for that.
But it would have been a problem that we
had been trying to solve a lot earlier.
And it feels relatively,
not that solved, and so
when you hear people talk about service
workers, they immediately think, well,
I'm not building an app,
so, I don't need them.
And the claim that I'm going to make and
I'm hoping to enable,
at least, from a creative thinking
perspective, all of you that
are watching this to do is,
I'm gonna make the claim that literally,
every single website on the internet
needs a service worker.
Every single website,
I mean the static, one pager,
that somebody wrote 20 years ago.
And I mean, the fancy,
Gmails of the world, and
I mean everything in between,
I think they all need a service worker.
And I think that, as we are moving into
this age of taking advantage of the web
platform, we get focused on the shiny
stuff, like, I got CSS Grid,
or I got this, and now I have these,
like progressive retina images.
And I've got all these crazy web fonts,
and I've got SVG and I've got animations.
We get focused, and rightly so,
those are fun and exciting things,
we get focused on the shiny stuff.
But I think we forget some of
the most important base plumbing
fundamentals of the web.
And I think the web got it wrong,
web and, by web I mean broadly,
the browser technology,
I think we got something wrong.
And service workers, at least the way
that I've positioned in my mind,
they go to trying to fix that.
The thing that I'm talking about, is that,
we have always had some notion of
information being cached in our browsers.
And we often think of, well,
because I have it cached,
it means I don't have to reload it
the next time I go to the website.
That's unfortunately, not really the case.
If you were to dig into the source
code of a browser, and look at all of
the different paths that it goes through,
to decide when it sees a request,
whether or not to try to load it from
cache, to even look in the cache, or
load it from cache versus getting
it from a server, or what it does.
You'd probably be blown away,
at just how complex that is.
It's not a binary decision like,
it's in the cache, I use it,
or it's not in the cache, and I don't.
And I think that's one of the problems
that we have, is that we've so
simplistically cemented in our mind,
something so uninteresting as caching,
that we just think the browser
takes care of that for me.
In our interest this morning, many of you
talked about being all over the world, and
all these different places.
I travel for work, I'm all over
the place and just a few days,
I'll be in Lithuania, and
then I'll be in other parts abroad.
And that means I spend most of my time,
not on my home WiFi or
in my nice United States of America, high
speed, WiFi connection, sort of stuff.
I use T-Mobile was my mobile provider,
and that means that I get,
free internet everywhere I go.
But it's at 2G speeds, so
that's the downside of it,
and I can pay like $50
a month to upgrade it to 4G.
But I'm cheap like that, I don't normally
do that, unless I'm gonna be somewhere for
a long time.
A few weeks in Australia, yeah, I'm gonna
pay to upgrade, but if it's a few days,
I just suffer through the 2G experiences,
of the web.
And so, maybe more than most, I get to see
firsthand, what it's like when we build,
not only slow experiences, but
basically broken experiences for people.
And we get so myopically focused on,
well, my boss and my sales and
marketing departments, tell me that all of
our customers have high speed Internet and
they access us at home, on a desktop
computer, with a high end monitor and
stuff like that.
We get so focused on that's for
our customers that we forget,
the fact that customers are mobile.
This is one of the things
I think that we've missed.
We forget the fact, that I can be your
customer here in the United States of
America, and I can load up your website,
and I can be thinking,
I wanna buy something from you or
pay for a service.
And then, in the middle of that decision,
get on a plane and
fly to Lithuania or some other bizarre,
far off, exotic place, wherever.
And I get off the plane and I connect to
my 2G speeds and I'm still your customer.
And I still want to experience
the web exactly like I did before, and
guess what, I'm willing to tolerate
the idea that it's not gonna be as
perfect as it was back home.
But there's a difference between I'm
willing to tolerate a degraded experience,
and I'm willing to just
essentially assume, I get nothing.
I literally get nothing
because nothing will load.
For example, many, many times,
I'll be sitting in an airport, bored,
waiting to get on the plane, and
I'll see a tweet that comes by,
with a blog post and it looks interesting,
so I click on the blog post.
I start reading the first two paragraphs
and then they board us on the plane.
So I go put the phone in my pocket,
I get on the plane,
I'm in the middle of that blog
post I'm still reading it.
I want to see what that
blog post has to say.
I go get on the plane,
we turn our phones into airplane mode,
I’m thirty thousand feet in the air,
there is no WiFi on this stupid plane.
And I open up your blog page, and I get
a blank white, failed to load screen.
Why is it that I had that content, before
I took off, and I didn't do anything,
it’s navigated around and
went to a whole different website.
It's still an open tab in
my mobile browser, but
I get on the plane, and it's gone.
And there's actually a thousand different
reasons why that I might have happened.
The website might have had dynamic
resources in the background,
that tried to make a request, and
that might have been why it happened.
It's actually, probably an ad that
messed it up, that did that to my site.
But whatever the reason is,
now I don't have your blog post and for
the next three hours,
I cannot read what I wanted to read.
I think that's what we've
missed about the web,
is that we've made these
terrible assumptions,
that people are gonna experience the web,
in a contiguous way.
That when you sit down to
experience something about the web,
you're not gonna be interrupted.
You're gonna have perfect WiFi,
perfect Internet connectivity,
perfect battery power.
You're never going to have any
sort of interruption to that,
that's the way that we design the web.
And the reality is that,
that's not the way the web is experienced,
by the vast majority of
the human population.
It's a very vanishingly small amount of
us, that get to have the privilege of
experiencing this continuous perfect web,
all the time.
And it's, like such a first world
privilege problem when we're like, my God,
GitHub took four seconds to load,
what are they doing?
All right, like, but that's a reality,
for a lot more of the world,
than I think we understand.